Docs/add tutorial (#348)
glotzerlab/freud: doc/source/querying.rst

.. _querying:

=========
Query API
=========

This page provides a thorough review of how neighbor finding is structured in **freud**.
It assumes knowledge at the level of the :ref:`neighbors` level of the tutorial; if you're not familiar with using the :meth:`query <freud.locality.NeighborQuery.query>` method with query arguments to find neighbors of points, please familiarize yourself with that section of the tutorial.

The central interface for neighbor finding is the :py:class:`freud.locality.NeighborQuery` family of classes, which provide methods for dynamically finding neighbors given a :py:class:`freud.box.Box`.

> The :py:class:`freud.locality.NeighborQuery` class defines an abstract interface for neighbor finding that is implemented by its subclasses, namely the :py:class:`freud.locality.LinkCell` and :py:class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :py:class:`freud.locality.NeighborQuery` class defines an abstract interface for neighbor finding that is implemented by its subclasses, namely the :py:class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` and :py:class:`freud.locality.LinkCell` classes.
```

These classes represent specific data structures used to accelerate neighbor finding.

> These two different methods have different performance characteristics, but in most cases :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` performs no worse than :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell` and is entirely parameter free, so it is the default method of choice used internally in **freud**'s ``PairCompute classes``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two different methods have different performance characteristics, but in most cases :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` performs as well as or better than :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell` and is entirely parameter free, so it is the default method of choice used internally in **freud**'s ``PairCompute`` classes.
```

In general, these data structures operate by constructing them using one set of points, after which they can be queried to efficiently find the neighbors of arbitrary other points using :py:meth:`freud.locality.NeighborQuery.query`.

Query Arguments
===============

The table below describes the set of valid query arguments.

+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Query Argument | Definition                                                            | Data type | Legal Values              | Valid for                                                           |
+================+=======================================================================+===========+===========================+=====================================================================+

> | mode           | The type of query to perform (distance cutoff or number of neighbors) | str       | 'none', 'ball', 'nearest' | :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell`, :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` |

Reviewer: Swap the order so AABBQuery is first.

+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| r_max          | Maximum distance to find neighbors                                    | float     | r_max > 0                 | :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell`, :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| r_min          | Minimum distance to find neighbors                                    | float     | 0 <= r_min < r_max        | :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell`, :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | num_neighbors  | Number of Neighbors                                                   | int       | num_neighbors >= 0        | :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell`, :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` |

Reviewer: Does 0 actually work? Have we tested that edge case?

Author: Not sure... I mean to just have >0, I'll change.

+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | exclude_ii     | Whether or not to include self-neighbors                              | bool      | True/False                | :class:`freud.locality.LinkCell`, :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery` |

Reviewer: "self-neighbors" isn't clear to me - it's excluding the same ids, not necessarily the same positions.

+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| r_guess        | Initial search distance for sequence of ball queries                  | float     | r_guess > 0               |  :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery`                                  |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | scale          | Amount to increase r_guess when not enough neighbors are found        | float     | scale > 1                 |  :class:`freud.locality.AABBQuery`                                  |

Reviewer: "Amount to increase" implies to me that it's additive instead of multiplicative.

+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Mode Deduction
==============

The ``mode`` query argument specifies the type of query that is being performed, and it therefore governs how other arguments are interpreted.
In most cases, however, the query mode can be deduced from the set of query arguments.
Specifically, any query with the ``num_neighbors`` key set is assumed to be a query with ``mode=nearest``.
For completeness, users may specify the mode explicitly if they wish.
The presence of the ``mode`` key also ensures that **freud** will not have to change its promises around mode deduction as additional query modes are added.

> Query Results

Reviewer: This section repeats itself a fair amount. What are the reasons why a reader would want to know more about this? We need to be sure we're addressing those reasons and not just showing off how cool it is.

=============

Although they don't typically need to be operated on directly, it can be useful to know a little about the objects returned by queries.

> In fact, the :class:`freud.locality.NeighborQueryResult` class (actually, it's underlying C++ counterparts) actually contains most of the logic for querying.

Reviewer: Too much "akshually" in this section...
```suggestion
In fact, the :class:`freud.locality.NeighborQueryResult` class (actually, its underlying C++ counterparts) actually contains most of the logic for querying.
```

The actual call to query simply creates a result object, which is an `iterator <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#iterators>`_.
More specifically, it is a generator, so it generates new neighbor pairs as it loops.

> Under the hood, the underlying C++ classes are actually performing the work of looping through candidate points and identifying neighbors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, the underlying C++ classes are actually performing the work of looping through candidate points and identifying neighbors.
```
